So in the previous two videos, we learned
about reading and writing to text files.
So they're the two modes that you
would use, probably, fairly often.
And we can also append to a text file
by using an A as the mode for append.
Now, opening a text file in append
mode causes data to be written to
the end of the file.
Without overriding the existing contents.
In fact these three modes are short for
RT, WT, and AT.
Or TR, TW, and TA.
The letters can be specified
either way around.
So the T stands for
text mode which is the default.
You don't ask for text or binary.
Now there's an interesting
link here that you can go to
to find out more about
the file opening mode.
So I'm just going to
open that up to show you.
And this link will be in
the resources section.
And you can see here the modes on the
screen, so we've got various modes there.
And you can see if you don't specify mode,
the default is auto is set to RT to
open a file, a text file, for reading.
And as it turns out, we'll be looking at
a binary file next in the next video,
but it's also possible to open a file for
both reading and writing by using plus.
But that doesn't replace r or w so
you have to use r plus or w plus or such.
Now mode x on the screen there,
it can be useful if you expect that file
shouldn't already exist and so it will
raise an error if you try to create a file
with the same name as the existing one.
And there can be some situations and
circumstances where that can be useful.
So before we move on
now to binary files and
better ways to store variables,
it's time for a challenge.
So let's go back to our code.
And we're gonna create a new file,
new path and file,
we're just gonna call it challenge.
So the challenge is
going to be as follows.
And what I'm going to do is I'm just
going to paste the code in Okay so
there is our challenge.
So we're going to write a program
to append a times table to our
in sample dot text.
So we want the tables from two
to 12 similar to the output
from the lecture which was in
section six of this course.
So the first column of numbers
should be right justified.
As an example, the two times table should
look like you can see there below.
You can see how that's
formatted going from 1 to 12.
So again what you're going to want to
do is write a program that's going to
append these tables, these time tables,
to the Jabberwocky palm and
sample dot text which you've
worked within the last few videos.
So pause the video now, go away, and
see if you can come up with that.
Based on what I talked to you about very
briefly in this video about a pending.
And you can also refer back to that
documentation page that I showed you
to find out the appropriate modes and
so forth to use.
So have a go at that and
when you're ready to come back and
see a solution or our solution to it
come back and I'll show you that.
Okay so did you get on?
Hopefully you managed to get it to work.
So here's the solution
now we came up with.
So we're going to start by opening
the file so it's with open,
and of course it's going to be sample.txt.
Whoops, I now need to specify the mode,
which is a for
pending I'm going to call it tables.
And then I'm going to go 4 I in range,
to 215.
And then I'm going to put for
J, for J in range 113.
And then I'm going to print
using replacement field syntax
Two like so times is two and
we use a .format which is gonna be i j and
of course i times j.
And then in the end of it files = tables.
And then we finish it off with a print
times 20, files = tables.
File yet, that should be file.
That should be it, so just confirming
that our sample got text at the moment
it's just got the Jabberwocky poem so
I'll just close it down again.
And if we now run this we don't
get anything output directly
because we've written everything
to a file not the console.
But now if I check my sample dot text.
You can see we've got the times tables,
correctly showing in the end of that file.
So we've correctly appended to that file.
Now note that each time that we've
run this program, I run it again.
And I'll just close it down to open it up,
to make it easier.
And, we've got the data repeated twice so
its actually come back and done it again.
Because pent output H time we run the
program in effect starting at the end of
the file, and if you wanted
to create a new file instead,
obviously, head back to our code and
change the A to a W.
And, that would create
the new file each time.
So, for example, And
I'll just call name something else so
we don't overwrite the original file.
And you'll run that.
You'll see sample two appear
there on the left hand side.
There's our code.
143 lines there, and
if we run it again Just to confirm,
I've still got 143, so it's obviously
creating the file each time.
So that's it, that's the end of
these three videos on reading and
writing text files.
In the next video, we're going to
start looking at binary files,
which is a different mechanism for
saving different types of data.
So, see you int hat next video.